Expand CONTRIBUTING.md with NUT contribution and review process (#398)
cashubtc/nuts: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to Cashu NUTs

This repository contains the protocol specifications for Cashu, defined as **NUTs** (Notation, Usage, and Terminology). Changes to these documents directly affect the interoperability of wallets and mints across the ecosystem. Please read this guide before contributing.

## Opening an Issue

Before making a pull request, consider opening an issue first to discuss your proposed change. This is especially important for new NUTs or significant changes to existing specifications. Issues allow the community to weigh in on the direction before significant effort is invested.

## Pull Request Naming

> - **New NUTs:** Use the naming convention `NUT-XX` where `XX` is the next available NUT number (e.g., `NUT-31`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New NUTs:** Use the naming convention `NUT-XX`, where `XX` represents the eventual NUT number (e.g., `NUT-31`). Do not try and reserve a number, it will be assigned before merge.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **New NUTs:** All references to the new NUT must be written as `NUT-XX`. Final NUT number (e.g., `NUT-31`) will be assigned before merge.
```

- **Changes to existing NUTs:** Prefix the PR title with the relevant NUT number(s) (e.g., `NUT-04: Add support for...` or `NUT-04, NUT-05: Update fee model...`).

## Specification Style

NUTs use [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119) keywords to indicate requirement levels:

- `MUST`, `MUST NOT`, `REQUIRED` — absolute requirements
- `SHOULD`, `SHOULD NOT`, `RECOMMENDED` — strong recommendations
- `MAY`, `OPTIONAL`, `CAN` — truly optional

Use these keywords consistently and in uppercase when specifying normative requirements. Descriptive or informational text does not need these keywords.

## Review Process

All NUT changes go through a community review process before being merged.

### Requesting Reviews

> Request reviews from Cashu contributors across the ecosystem — wallet developers, mint operators, and library maintainers. **A minimum of five approving reviews is required** before a NUT change can proceed. More reviewers are strongly encouraged to ensure broad consensus.

Reviewer: Five approving reviews seems excessive.

Reviews can only be requested formally by those with write access (contributors can tag a person in the PR comments, I think?)

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think with the current permission setup (only very few maintainers) we need to have a separate list of which reviews count towards that goal. I am no NUT maintainer, but @ye0man was able to request my review on this.

### Comment Period

> Once a PR is opened and reviews are requested, a **soft two-week comment period** begins. This window encourages feedback and discussion from the wider community. The period is soft — it may be extended if significant discussion is ongoing, or shortened if consensus is reached quickly and all reviewers have responded.

Reviewer 2: What is the purpose of this, if the time period is soft and can always be shortened or extended. Maybe we can drop that ssection. Reasonably swift review should be implicit.

### Merge Process

The merge process ensures that specifications are validated by real implementations before becoming part of the spec:

> 1. **Consensus reached** — Once the NUT PR has been sufficiently ACK'd by reviewers (minimum five approvals, discussion resolved), it is labeled **"Awaiting Implementation PRs"**.

Reviewer 3: Who are these 5 approvals?

Reviewer 3: for reference rust-bitcoin outlines their requirements like https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#repository-maintainers

2. **Implementation PRs** — Contributors open implementation PRs in their respective wallet or mint repositories that implement the proposed specification change.

> 3. **Ready to merge** — Once **at least two implementation PRs** across different projects are marked as **"Ready to Merge"**, the NUT specification PR is merged first.

Reviewer 3: What implementations count towards this?

Reviewer: We've an informal (maybe just me and TSK) convention of tagging the implementations in the PR description, and using the checklist to confirm they are "correct to current spec". 

That might be a maintainer thing, not a contributor one... but maybe the could be a .github template that structures the PR desc?

Reviewer 2: I wonder whether this needs to be a predefined list or can be decided on a case-to-case basis. This rule is not meant to tie-break controversial nuts, but as a POC. So even proper implementation from new contributors could count towards that goal if they prove feasibility imo.

Reviewer 4: I think on most PR, the unofficial predefined list is CTS, CDK and Nutshell, but like @Egge21M said maybe a proper implementation outside this list should count if the poc is verifiable.
